Technical Review: tshoot-intro.adoc (#739)
SUSE/doc-susemanager: modules/administration/pages/reports.adoc

[[reports]]
= Generate Reports

The [command]``spacewalk-report`` command is used to produce a variety of reports.

> These reports can be helpful for taking inventory of your entitlements, subscribed systems, users, and organizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These reports can be helpful for taking inventory of your subscribed systems, users, and organizations.
```

(That functionality has been removed since 3.0)

Using reports is often simpler than gathering information manually from the {susemgr} {webui}, especially if you have many systems under management.

To generate reports, you must have the [package]``spacewalk-reports`` package installed.

The [command]``spacewalk-report`` command allows you to organize and display reports about content, systems, and user resources across {productname}.

You can generate reports on:

. System Inventory: list all the systems registered to {productname}.

> . Entitlements: list all organizations, sorted by system or channel entitlements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

. Patches: lists all the patches relevant to the registered systems and sorts patches by severity, as well as the systems that apply to a particular patch.
. Users: lists all the users registered to {productname} and any systems associated with a particular user.

To get the report in CSV format, run this command at the command prompt on the server:

----
spacewalk-report <report_name>
----

> This table lists the available reports:

Reviewer 2: What about normalizing the descriptions?  We have "List of" and "Lists".  I'd prefer "List of".

Author: I removed all the "lists" and "lists of", it seems kinda redundant.

| Kickstart Trees | [command]``kickstartable-trees`` | Kickstartable trees.
| All Upgradable Versions | [command]``packages-updates-all`` | All newer package versions that can be upgraded.
| Newest Upgradable Version | [command]``packages-updates-newest`` | Newest package versions that can be upgraded.
| Result of SCAP | [command]``scap-scan`` | Result of OpenSCAP ``sccdf`` evaluations.
| Result of SCAP | [command]``scap-scan-results`` | Result of OpenSCAP ``sccdf`` evaluations, in a different format.
| System Data | [command]``splice-export`` | System data needed for splice integration.
| System Groups | [command]``system-groups`` | System groups.
| Activation Keys for System Groups | [command]``system-groups-keys`` | Activation keys for system groups.
| Systems in System Groups | [command]``system-groups-systems`` | Systems in system groups.
| System Groups Users | [command]``system-groups-users`` | Report of system groups users.
| Installed Packages | [command]``system-packages-installed`` | Packages installed on systems.
| Users in the System | [command]``users`` | All users registered to {productname}.

> | Systems administered | [command]``users-systems`` | Systems that individual users can administer.

Reviewer: Only 24 out of the 51 available reports currently available are listed here.

Source: https://github.com/SUSE/spacewalk/tree/Manager-4.0/reporting/reports/data (every file in this directory is a report)

Do we want to:

1- complete the list,
2- drop the list or
3- only list some here?

Author: We probably should list all of them ...

|===

For more information about an individual report, run [command]``spacewalk-report`` with the option [option]``--info`` or [option]``--list-fields-info`` and the report name.
The description and list of possible fields in the report will be shown.

> For further information on program invocations and options, see the [literal]``spacewalk-report(8)`` man page as well as the [option]``--help``parameter of the [command]``spacewalk-report``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For further information on program invocation and options, see the [literal]``spacewalk-report(8)`` man page as well as the [option]``--help``parameter of the [command]``spacewalk-report`` command.
```

Using reports is often simpler than gathering information manually from the {susemgr} {webui}, especially if you have many systems under management.

To generate reports, you must have the [package]``spacewalk-reports`` package installed.

The [command]``spacewalk-report`` command allows you to organize and display reports about content, systems, and user resources across {productname}.

You can generate reports on:

. System Inventory: list all the systems registered to {productname}.
. Patches: list all the patches relevant to the registered systems and sorts patches by severity, as well as the systems that apply to a particular patch.
. Users: list all registered users and any systems associated with a particular user.

To get the report in CSV format, run this command at the command prompt on the server:

----
spacewalk-report <report_name>
----

This table lists the available reports:

[[tab.bp.troubleshooting.spacewalk-report]]
.[command]``spacewalk-report`` Reports
[cols="1,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Report | Invoked as | Description
| Actions | [command]``actions`` | All actions.

> | Activation Keys | [command]``activation-keys`` | All activation keys, and the entitlements, channels, configuration channels, server groups, and packages associated with them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Activation Keys | [command]``activation-keys`` | All activation keys, and the entitlements, channels, configuration channels, system groups, and packages associated with them.
```

| Channel Report | [command]``channels`` | Detailed report of a given channel.
| Cloned Channel Report | [command]``cloned-channels`` | Detailed report of cloned channels.
| Configuration Files | [command]``config-files`` | All configuration file revisions for all organizations, including  file contents and file information.
| Latest Configuration Files | [command]``config-files-latest`` | The most recent configuration file revisions for all organizations, including  file contents and file information.
| Custom Channels | [command]``custom-channels`` | Channel metadata for all channels owned by specific organizations
| Custom Info | [command]``custom-info`` | Client custom information.
| Patches in Channels | [command]``errata-channels`` | All patches in channels.
| Patches Details | [command]``errata-list`` | All patches that affect registered clients.
| All patches | [command]``errata-list-all`` | All patches.
| Patches for Clients | [command]``errata-systems`` | Applicable patches and any registered clients that are affected.
| Host Guests | [command]``host-guests`` | Host and guests mapping.
| Inactive Clients | [command]``inactive-systems`` | Inactive clients.

> | System Inventory | [command]``inventory`` | Systems registered to the server, together with hardware and software information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| System Inventory | [command]``inventory`` | Clients registered to the server, together with hardware and software information.
```

| Kickstart Scripts | [command]``kickstart-scripts`` | All kickstart scripts, with details.
| Kickstart Trees | [command]``kickstartable-trees`` | Kickstartable trees.
| All Upgradable Versions | [command]``packages-updates-all`` | All newer package versions that can be upgraded.
| Newest Upgradable Version | [command]``packages-updates-newest`` | Newest package versions that can be upgraded.
| Proxy Overview | [command]``proxies-overview`` | All proxies and the clients registered to each.
| Repositories | [command]``repositories`` | All repositories, with their associated SSL details, and any filters.
| Result of SCAP | [command]``scap-scan`` | Result of OpenSCAP ``sccdf`` evaluations.
| Result of SCAP | [command]``scap-scan-results`` | Result of OpenSCAP ``sccdf`` evaluations, in a different format.
| System Data | [command]``splice-export`` | Client data needed for splice integration.

> | System Crash: Count | [command]``system-crash-count`` | The total number of system crashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| System Crash: Count | [command]``system-crash-count`` | The total number of client crashes.
```

> | System Crash: Details | [command]``system-crash-details`` | Crash details for all systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| System Crash: Details | [command]``system-crash-details`` | Crash details for all clients.
```

| System Currency | [command]``system-currency`` | Number of available patches for each registered client.
| System Extra Packages | [command]``system-extra-packages`` | All packages installed on all clients that are not available from channels the client is subscribed to.
| System Groups | [command]``system-groups`` | System groups.
| Activation Keys for System Groups | [command]``system-groups-keys`` | Activation keys for system groups.

> | Systems in System Groups | [command]``system-groups-systems`` | Systems in system groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Systems in System Groups | [command]``system-groups-systems`` | Clients in system groups.
```

> | System Groups Users | [command]``system-groups-users`` | Report of system groups users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| System Groups Users | [command]``system-groups-users`` | System groups and users that have permissions on them.
```

> | History: System | [command]``system-history`` | Event history for each system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| History: System | [command]``system-history`` | Event history for each client.
```

| History: Channels | [command]``system-history-channels`` | Channel event history.
| History: Configuration | [command]``system-history-configuration`` | Configuration event history.
| History: Entitlements | [command]``system-history-entitlements`` | System entitlement event history.
| History: Errata | [command]``system-history-errata`` | Errata event history.
| History: Kickstart | [command]``system-history-kickstart`` | Kickstart event history.
| History: Packages | [command]``system-history-packages`` | Package event history.
| History: SCAP | [command]``system-history-scap`` | OpenSCAP event history.

> | MD5 Certificates | [command]``system-md5-certificates`` | All registered systems using certificates with an MD5 checksum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| MD5 Certificates | [command]``system-md5-certificates`` | All registered clients using certificates with an MD5 checksum.
```

> | Installed Packages | [command]``system-packages-installed`` | Packages installed on systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Installed Packages | [command]``system-packages-installed`` | Packages installed on clients.
```

> | System Profiles | [command]``system-profiles`` | All systems registered to the server, with software and system group information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| System Profiles | [command]``system-profiles`` | All clients registered to the server, with software and system group information.
```

> | Users in the System | [command]``users`` | All users registered to {productname}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Users | [command]``users`` | All users registered to {productname}.
```

| MD5 Users | [command]``users-md5`` | All users for all organizations using MD5 encrypted passwords, with their details and roles.

> | Systems administered | [command]``users-systems`` | Systems that individual users can administer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Systems administered | [command]``users-systems`` | Clients that individual users can administer.
```

You can generate reports on:

. System Inventory: list all the systems registered to {productname}.
. Patches: list all the patches relevant to the registered systems and sorts patches by severity, as well as the systems that apply to a particular patch.
. Users: list all registered users and any systems associated with a particular user.

To get the report in CSV format, run this command at the command prompt on the server:

----
spacewalk-report <report_name>
----

This table lists the available reports:

[[tab.bp.troubleshooting.spacewalk-report]]
.[command]``spacewalk-report`` Reports
[cols="1,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|Report | Invoked as | Description
| Actions | [command]``actions`` | All actions.
| Activation Keys | [command]``activation-keys`` | All activation keys, and the entitlements, channels, configuration channels, server groups, and packages associated with them.
| Activation Keys: Channels | [command]``activation-keys-channels`` | All activation keys and the entities associated with each key.
| Activation Keys: Configuration | [command]``activation-keys-config`` | All activation keys and the configuration channels associated with each key.

> | Activation Keys: Server Groups | [command]``activation-keys-groups`` | All activation keys and the server groups associated with each key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Activation Keys: Server Groups | [command]``activation-keys-groups`` | All activation keys and the system groups associated with each key.
```

"System groups" is what we use in the WebUI and API. Documentation-wise "client groups" would be more appropriate, but I'd suggest sticking to the product jargon until we change it.

| Activation Keys: Packages | [command]``activation-keys-packages`` | All activation keys and the packages each key can deploy.
| Channel Packages | [command]``channel-packages`` | All packages in a channel.
| Channel Report | [command]``channels`` | Detailed report of a given channel.
| Cloned Channel Report | [command]``cloned-channels`` | Detailed report of cloned channels.
| Configuration Files | [command]``config-files`` | All configuration file revisions for all organizations, including  file contents and file information.
| Latest Configuration Files | [command]``config-files-latest`` | The most recent configuration file revisions for all organizations, including  file contents and file information.

> | Custom Channels | [command]``custom-channels`` | Channel-meta-data for all channels owned by specific organizations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Custom Channels | [command]``custom-channels`` | Channel metadata for all channels owned by specific organizations
```

> | Custom Info | [command]``custom-info`` | System custom information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Custom Info | [command]``custom-info`` | Client custom information.
```

> | Entitlements | [command]``entitlements`` | All organizations, and their system or channel entitlements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This report was removed as of SUSE Manager 3.0

| Patches in Channels | [command]``errata-channels`` | All patches in channels.

> | Patches Details | [command]``errata-list`` | All patches that affect registered systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Patches Details | [command]``errata-list`` | All patches that affect registered clients.
```

| All patches | [command]``errata-list-all`` | All patches.

> | Patches for Systems | [command]``errata-systems`` | Applicable patches and any registered systems that are affected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Patches for Clients | [command]``errata-systems`` | Applicable patches and any registered clients that are affected.
```

| Host Guests | [command]``host-guests`` | Host and guests mapping.

> | Inactive Systems | [command]``inactive-systems`` | Inactive systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Inactive Clients | [command]``inactive-systems`` | Inactive clients.
```

I am actually a bit unsure about this and the following ones, as those are the titles of the pages in the Web UI that have the same information. Up to you to decide I'd say.

Author: I really much prefer "clients" over "systems", because "systems" could mean just about anything. I get the point, but considering the report name remains "systems" I reckon people will figure it out.

| System Inventory | [command]``inventory`` | Systems registered to the server, together with hardware and software information.
| Kickstart Scripts | [command]``kickstart-scripts`` | All kickstart scripts, with details.
| Kickstart Trees | [command]``kickstartable-trees`` | Kickstartable trees.
| All Upgradable Versions | [command]``packages-updates-all`` | All newer package versions that can be upgraded.
| Newest Upgradable Version | [command]``packages-updates-newest`` | Newest package versions that can be upgraded.

> | Proxy Overview | [command]``proxies-overview`` | All proxies and the servers registered with each.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Proxy Overview | [command]``proxies-overview`` | All Proxies and the clients registered to each.
```

Author: Only initcap server and proxy if they're preceded by "{productname}" (because that turns them into proper nouns).

| Repositories | [command]``repositories`` | All repositories, with their associated SSL details, and any filters.
| Result of SCAP | [command]``scap-scan`` | Result of OpenSCAP ``sccdf`` evaluations.
| Result of SCAP | [command]``scap-scan-results`` | Result of OpenSCAP ``sccdf`` evaluations, in a different format.

> | System Data | [command]``splice-export`` | System data needed for splice integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| System Data | [command]``splice-export`` | Client data needed for splice integration.
```

| System Crash: Count | [command]``system-crash-count`` | The total number of system crashes.
| System Crash: Details | [command]``system-crash-details`` | Crash details for all systems.

> | System Currency | [command]``system-currency`` | Number of available errata for each registered system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| System Currency | [command]``system-currency`` | Number of available patches for each registered client.
```

> | System Extra Packages | [command]``system-extra-packages`` | All packages installed on all systems that are not available from channels the system is subscribed to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| System Extra Packages | [command]``system-extra-packages`` | All packages installed on all clients that are not available from channels the client is subscribed to.
```

You can generate reports on:

. System Inventory: list all the systems registered to {productname}.

> . Patches: list all the patches relevant to the registered systems and sorts patches by severity, as well as the systems that apply to a particular patch.

Reviewer 2: Looks inconsistent: "list ... sort**s** ..."

| Activation Keys: Channels | [command]``activation-keys-channels`` | All activation keys and the entities associated with each key.
| Activation Keys: Configuration | [command]``activation-keys-config`` | All activation keys and the configuration channels associated with each key.
| Activation Keys: Server Groups | [command]``activation-keys-groups`` | All activation keys and the system groups associated with each key.
| Activation Keys: Packages | [command]``activation-keys-packages`` | All activation keys and the packages each key can deploy.
| Channel Packages | [command]``channel-packages`` | All packages in a channel.
| Channel Report | [command]``channels`` | Detailed report of a given channel.
| Cloned Channel Report | [command]``cloned-channels`` | Detailed report of cloned channels.
| Configuration Files | [command]``config-files`` | All configuration file revisions for all organizations, including  file contents and file information.
| Latest Configuration Files | [command]``config-files-latest`` | The most recent configuration file revisions for all organizations, including  file contents and file information.

> | Custom Channels | [command]``custom-channels`` | Channel metadata for all channels owned by specific organizations

Reviewer 2: here i want to see a dot at the end ;)

Author: How do you even see these?!
